Summary

 In 2008, Mass layoffs, stock market decline, and top businesses filing for bankruptcy are all over the news. People began to think that financial freedom was a myth and this exactly what the author tries to capture. He explains how it is actually not bad news but rather good news in his opinion. He believes that each person should be responsible for his own finances. He should not depend on what is happening to the economy and be the master to his money not a slave. The discussion further talks about the employment mythology where it is assumed a safe and secure source of income. This where the 4 quadrants are introduced, namely E(Employee), S(self-employed), B(Business owner), I(Investor). The overwhelming majority of us learn, live, love, and leave this life entirely within the E quadrant. The S quadrant can be a thankless and difficult place to live but in reality, S stands for slavery: You don’t really own your business, your business owns you. The B quadrant is where people go to create big businesses. The difference between an S business and a B business is that you work for your S business, but your B business works for you. Ideally, those who live and work in the B quadrant make themselves recession-proof, because they control the source of their own income. Finally, the I quadrant where in which it is not your business which works for you anymore, but your money. The author talks about the core financial values and how to associate oneself with each quadrant. A very bold statement is penned down to capture readers attention, which states “If you want to get rich, you’re going to have to move. You don’t need a new job; you need a new address.” . He is quick to point out that you do not want to be in the left half if you want to build sufficient wealth to become independent. This is followed by emphasizing the importance of passive income through the business model of network marketing. 
Part 2 discusses the model in detail with a help of a friend named John and invited him to share some of his insights in the 40years experience. At this point he beings the journey to remark the value of assets. The point is not to get stuck in actively earning money but to try and start earning. It’s not about income, but about assets which bring income on their own. According to him, the eight wealth-building assets which matter are:
Asset 1: A Real-World Business Education
Asset 2: A Profitable Path of Personal Development
Asset 3: A Circle of Friends Who Share Your Dreams and Values
Asset 4: The Power of Your Own Network
Asset 5: A Duplicable, Fully Scalable Business
Asset 6: Incomparable Leadership Skills
Asset 7: A Mechanism for Genuine Wealth Creation
Asset 8: Big Dreams and the Capacity to Live Them
Part 3 finally concludes by talking about the future of network marketing and making the right choice.
Here are a few questions to ask yourself about a network marketing company.
• Who’s running the ship?
• Does the company offer a proven plan of action?
• Does the company embrace both business skills and personal development as a regular part of its educational and training programs?
• Does the company have a strong, high-quality, and highly marketable product line that you can be passionate about?
Further, he shows what it takes build our own successful network marketing business along with what is not necessary. He talks about having the right attitude, time and real growth to achieve our goals. A 5 year plan is recommended to learn the process. Well, it finally comes down to the action that each one of us takes as an individual. “It is not real estate, gold, stocks, hard work, or money that makes you rich; it is what you know about real estate, gold, stocks, hard work, and money that makes you rich. Ultimately, it is your financial intelligence that makes you rich. “. 
Knowing How to Make More Money, Knowing How to Protect Your Money, Knowing How to Budget Your Money and Knowing How to Leverage Your Money. These are the most important take away that have been discussed. His principal reasons to put so much energy into supporting and promoting the network marketing industry is simply because its systems are fairer than previous systems of acquiring wealth. He believes it is a very democratic way of wealth creation. The system is open to anyone who has drive, determination, and perseverance.
